DOC Add documentation entry about file system access (#2420)
pyodide/pyodide: docs/usage/file-system.md

(file-system)=

> # Dealing with Pyodide file system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Dealing with the file system
```
since it's provided by Emscripen and we don't really change anything about it.

> Pyodide supports file system through [Emscripten File System API](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#filesystem-api).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pyodide supports file system operations via the [Emscripten File System API](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#filesystem-api).
```

> Pyodide supports file system through [Emscripten File System API](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#filesystem-api).
> In JavaScript, Pyodide file system can be accessed through {any}`pyodide.FS`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pyodide includes a file system provided by Emscripten.
In JavaScript, Pyodide file system can be accessed through {any}`pyodide.FS` which re-exports the  [Emscripten File System API](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#filesystem-api)
```
maybe to give more credit to Emscripten

Reviewer 2: Should be "*the* Pyodide file system can be accessed through ..."

**Example: Reading from the file system**

```js
pyodide.runPython(`

>   f = open("/hello.txt", "w")
>   f.write("hello world!")
>   f.close()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  with open("/hello.txt", "w") as fh:
      fh.write("hello world!")
```

`);

> let file = pyodide.FS.readFile("/hello.txt", { encoding: "utf-8" });

Author: No, encoding should be specified when reading text because [default encoding of `FS.readFile` is binary](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#FS.readFile).

```js
console.log(pyodide.FS.readFile("/hello.txt", {encoding: "utf8"}))
hello world
console.log(pyodide.FS.readFile("/hello.txt"))
Uint8Array(11) [104, 101, 108, 108, 111, 32, 119, 111, 114, 108, 100, buffer: ArrayBuffer(11), byteLength: 11, byteOffset: 0, length: 11, Symbol(Symbol.toStringTag): 'Uint8Array']
```

But actually, it should be `utf8` not `utf-8`. It is a typo 🙄.

console.log(file);
```

**Example: Writing to the file system**

```js
let data = "hello world!";
pyodide.FS.writeFile("/hello.txt", data, { encoding: "utf-8" });
pyodide.runPython(`

>   f = open("/hello.txt", "r")
>   data = f.read()
>   print(data)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  with open("/hello.txt", "r") as fh:
        data = f.read()
  print(data)
```

`);
```

## Mounting a file system

> The default file system of Pyodide is [MEMFS](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#memfs),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default file system used in Pyodide is [MEMFS](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#memfs),
```

> which is a virtual file system saved in memory. The data saved in MEMFS will be lost when the page is reloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is a virtual in-memory file system. The data stored in MEMFS will be lost when the page is reloaded.
```

> To prevent that situation, you can mount other types of file systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent this situation, you can mount other types of file systems.
```
I would have said, but I could be wrong.

Reviewer 2: Agreed "this" is better here. But maybe more explicitly:
```suggestion
If you wish for files to persist, you can mount other file systems.
```

> Pyodide supports various file systems: `IDBFS`, `NODEFS`, `PROXYFS`, `WORKERFS`.
> The implementations are available as members of {any}`pyodide.FS.filesystems`.
> Note that each file system requires specific runtime environments.
> See [Emscripten File System API](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#filesystem-api) for the detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other file systems provided by Emscripten are `IDBFS`, `NODEFS`, `PROXYFS`, `WORKERFS`.
Note that some filesystems can only be used in specific runtime environments.
See [Emscripten File System API](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#filesystem-api) for more details.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, to store data persistently between page reloads, one could mount 
a folder with the 
[IDBFS file system](https://emscripten.org/docs/api_reference/Filesystem-API.html#filesystem-api-idbfs) 
```
